### How to Airdrop

Each time airdrop is done new contract needs to be deployed. Airdrop can be done by airdropping **SEAM** or **Escrow SEAM**. In case of airdropping **SEAM**, **_SeamAirdrop_** contract need to be deployed with **_SeamAirdropDeploy_** script and in case of airdropping **Escrow SEAM**, **_EscrowSeamAirdrop_** contract need to be deployed with **_EscrowSeamAirdrop_** script. All **SEAM** tokens reserved for airdrop needs to be sent on this new contract. Owner of contract should always be short timelock controller and he has privilege to withdraw **SEAM** tokens back from airdrop contract.

In case of **SEAM** airdrop, tokens will be sent directly to user's wallet. In case of **Escrow SEAM** airdrop tokens will be sent to **_EscrowSeam_** contract and vested there.

Airdrop is done by using merkle tree. Owner of airdrop contracts has privilege to update merkle root at any time. Before generating merkle root all addresses and amount for each address need to be specified. They can be specified in CSV or JSON format. If JSON format is chosen then addresses and amounts should be placed in _addresses.json_ file inside _script/airdrop/input_ folder. If CSV format is chosen addresses and amounts should be placed in _addresses.csv_ inside _script/airdrop/input_ folder. Both of this files need to be in the same format like it is provided in _addresses.json.example_ and _addresses.csv.example_. Not keeping them in the same format may lead to unexpected behavior.

Scripts always work with JSON input. Which means that if CSV format is chosen it must first be translated to JSON. If JSON format is chosen no translation is required. Translating CSV to JSON should be done by running **_npm run convert-csv-to-json_** command. When transaction is done file _addresses.json_ will be generated and stored inside _script/airdrop/input_ folder. After this action merkle root can be generated by running **_npm run generate-merkle-root_**. After this action is done output will be logged in console and inside output files stored in _script/aidrop/output_ folder. **When generating merkle root is done all input and output files should be renamed because scripts will overwrite them when new merkle root is generated new aidrop.** Merkle root should and tree should now be used inside FE repository for generating merkle proofs.
